Okay, I'm going to call to order the
town of Andover Board of Selectmen
special meeting for Monday, December
22nd, 2025
at uh 7:03 p.m. Uh our first order of
business is the pledge of allegiance. I
pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.
>> Um,
uh, as a point of order, I'm going to
move to 2E to start with because we have
the assessor who is, uh, staying late
today. Um, and I was hoping that John
could fill us in as to what the status
is in his office related to assistance
and what he needs so that we can better
understand the memorandum of
understanding. So, John, have at it.
>> Good evening. Um, so I think everyone's
well aware that um, we lost our
assistant assessor and you know the
model that we work under here in Andover
is 34 hours a week full-time with the
assistant assessor and then I'm here
part-time on a limited basis about five
hours a week in the office and this time
of year typically we put in some extra
hours in order to get the grand list uh
filed but at this point having lost her
the first week in November
um you know I'm already short 240 hours
of uh clerical work in the office. She
has actually helped out with with a few
things and probably did maybe six or
eight hours worth of work um uh since
the departure,
but there's no way we can get everything
done on time um with just me here on
such a limited basis. So, where we stand
right now is we've already requested a
one-month extension from the state of
Connecticut to file the grand list, and
it will be really hard to to do that
even by the end of February and get
everything that's taxable on the list.
Um,
the supplemental motor vehicle bills are
usually out. They're due January 1
typically. Those are going out late.
They're not going to go out until
January. So, they're going to go out a
little bit late. And that gets a little
problematic because our tax collector
has a vacation that was planned um you
know more than a year ago. She's gone
from February 5th to February 22nd. So
we're getting into a little bit of a
sticky wicket there where these bills
can be going out and due at a time when
she wouldn't even be here.
Um
I did reach out, you know, and put some
feelers out to see if anybody would be
willing to come in here and help out. I
did forward two offers uh to Jim Balano.
One was looking for 140 an hour. The
other one at 150 an hour. Um the union
rep apparently
uh made an offer to the town to have the
assistant assessor help out in the
filing of the grand list. And thatou is
before you. So that's another option. We
have saved about $1,000 a week
uh in salary and benefits since her
departure. So,
uh if the board approves this, there's
there's certainly funding for it. It's
not going to um put us over budget. I
don't know what other
questions I can answer for you guys.
>> Tell them about status of the uh
interviewees.
>> No, I think it's completely separate.
I mean, we have be we have been
interviewing, but I mean, you know, even
if we h bring someone in, they're going
to have absolutely no experience. So,
you know, honestly, they'll almost be
there twiddling their thumbs a little
bit in the beginning because not knowing
how to use the software programs, not
understanding the law, not understanding
what we do. Do I stop and try to teach
them something or do we try to get
everything on the grill list that we
possibly can?
Is the 10 hours going to be sufficient
for you to get done what you need done?
>> I mean, more would be great. Uh but you
know 10 hours from
10 10 hours from
coming from you know the person who's
worked in that office for the last 13
years who knows where everything is and
and you know versus bringing someone
else in even though they might be
certified and have 20 or 30 years of
experience they're not going to do as
much work
in the time frame that she could do it.
I would love for it to be more than 10
hours, but I don't know that she can
give that. Her plan was to stay one hour
a day, Tuesday through uh Thursday and
then come in Friday for four or five
hours. um
she knowing her she probably would do
even even more than that even though it
says you know approximately 10 hours but
we definitely are in a dire situation
and um you know
we we we really need the help from
someone to get the grandless you know
filed then then at some point like Jim
said we've been doing the interviews
we're going to offer the position to
somebody and hire somebody
um you know your training is really
difficult when they're here 34 hours and
I'm only here five and there's a bunch
of things I have to get done. When
Robera was first hired um 13 or 15 years
ago, she was hired during the month of
May and we contracted with Bolton and
brought Barry over here who was their
assistant. She was training Robera. It
was also a slower time of the year right
after the green list is filed and the
board of assessment appeals is done and
before your bills go out in July. It's
it's a really great time. So I mean
training will be an issue um you know as
well. Uh it's not that like we haven't
seen this before or gone through it
before but it really is in my opinion
kind of a dire situation.
>> Okay. Does do any of the other members
have any questions for the assessor?
>> Okay. Is it possible to is it possible
to excuse me find um somebody from
another town to help out for a while?
>> Um well so we have sort of two issues.
The first one is getting this brand list
you know filed um by the end of
February. So you know one of the one of
the biggest tasks the the assistant
assessor position handles is the
personal property. They do all the
mailing, um, receiving, reconciling, and
data entry for the personal property
declarations, which is all the business
taxable property. Those aren't even due
till November 1st, and because November
1st was a weekend, they were due
November 3rd, and, you know, on no on
November 5th, you know, she was gone.
Uh, also, a lot of people had till
December 15th because they took an
extension to file them. So there's just
so much work that needs to be done
immediately and um otherwise there's
stuff we're not going to be taxing. So
could we bring someone in from another
town? Yeah. I I got two offers of people
to help. They wanted 140 and 150 an
hour. So I mean at at 140 10 hours is
for you know 1,400 bucks. And they don't
know the office cold like she does. and
um you know they probably would would be
working at a slightly slower pace just
till they got up to speed on you know
where everything is and whatnot. Um we
definitely need some help. I mean listen
I don't mind helping and I am I've taken
a couple vacation days and I'm putting
in more time here but still it's not
going to happen without um you know some
extra assistance.
So the first thing is really just to get
that grand filed. Then we have to talk
about um you know what we can do to help
bring the new employee along because
they're going to have absolutely no
experience in that office. They don't
understand Connecticut law, what's
taxable, what's exempt, all the
different applications. Uh they don't
know how to use the computer systems.
>> Okay. Anyone else?
All right. Um,
>> how are you?
>> Listen, it it only seems to make sense
that we sit there and consider this. I'm
not sitting there saying that we do it
right now because I know we just got the
documentation. I know we need to do it
quickly. So, um,
>> I just
>> Dennis, if that's you, can you can you
mute
>> or Jim, can you mute them?
All right. Um,
okay. So, um,
we definitely need to sit there and
provide some assistance to the assessor
and to that office. So, we have to
figure out a way to do it. Um, he would
be in the best position to let us know
how to get that done.
I don't really think other than
potentially negotiating with Roberta in
the union, that would probably be what
we need to do.
Anybody
>> like it to me?
>> Carol, Jeff.
Yeah. the other selectman have any um
questions about this or do you have are
you on board with this?
So when we bring it back in two weeks.
>> All right. Well, let's move on because
uh John, thank you very much for taking
the time. Appreciate it.
>> You guys are saying we're going to go
another two weeks without anybody in
that office.
>> No, but it doesn't appear, John, that
we're going to sit there and have a
group that wants to vote on this
tonight. Unless I'm mistaken. Carol,
Jeff,
>> and that's okay. I just feel like I have
a duty and responsibility to say I can
guarantee there will be things that
won't be taxed this year. And I just,
you know, I can show you where I was
texting Eric for permission to post the
vacancy on November 5th and and it just
kept getting dragged out and dragged out
and dragged out. I don't know what other
word to use besides dire. So, I just
want to make sure I'm on the record of
saying that. That's what we're looking
at.
>> Understood.
>> Okay. Where where are we at with the
hiring process?
>> Um we ju we we conducted all the
interviews and um you know I I I we may
be done. I'm not sure. We just did the
last one maybe an hour or so ago.
>> Okay.
>> We did some last th we did a bunch last
Thursday and and we just wrapped up
tonight. So that's
>> and maybe tomorrow you come in. We can
talk about process that approval
process. It's It's not a department
level, but
we'll talk.
>> Are we Are we close to selecting a
candidate or is there somebody that
stuck out that you guys probably are
going to go forward and make an offer
to?
>> There's there's I don't know if it's
okay. Is it okay to talk about this
here?
>> No, I just I just You don't have to talk
about the names. I'm just trying to to
put the timeline there together because
if we bring somebody in on a temporary
basis and you you say we have to get
them up to speed and they don't know the
system and everything. I just don't know
what it's going to gain us in the if
we're going to hire somebody right away
and then we figure out what the start
date is. I mean it's I don't really want
to spend time training somebody twice on
the systems.
>> So there's there's one candidate that
has some relative experience, someone
who is a title searcher. Obviously one
of the biggest
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Just just say you got a
preferred candidate.
>> Okay. I'm sorry.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um, that's why I wasn't sure
if I was supposed to say anything.
>> I just I wouldn't Yeah, I wouldn't try
to do anything that makes them
identifiable. I just say if you have
somebody that you know probably 90%
chance that that's somebody you're
probably going to move forward and make
an offer to, then let's get that ball
rolling and let's see when they can
start. We we can, but they're going to
be standing there sitting there
twiddling their thumbs for the most part
because do I stop and start trying to
teach them how to use a computer system
or do I put houses out there that don't
have tax bills right now on the tax
roles?
>> Yeah, but I think I think that what I'm
trying to get at is if we make an offer
to that person to accept and we get a
start date. I mean, that's g we got two
weeks right now until we get to our next
meeting and if we have to do something
for training, we can do it at that
point.
I I don't there isn't going to be any
training be probably between now and the
end of February because you either train
or or you get everything you can on
there. Right now, I guarantee even if we
even if you guys voted on this and
approved it tonight, I guarantee there's
going to be things that don't make it on
the grant list as taxable this year.
That's what dire means.
>> That's not acceptable.
>> I don't know what else you want to do.
>> I I know. I I know everybody thinks
that, but why are we getting no uh
responses from some of
>> Well, Scott Scott, I'm If we bring
somebody in now on a temporary basis,
they still have to get up to speed. So,
we're not going to get anywhere.
>> No. If we bring someone the offers we
have for temporary assistance are people
who've worked in assessor's offices for
years or worked for rebellies for years.
They're people who can come in and
contribute right away. I mean, they're
asking for 140 and 150 an hour, which
which isn't unheard of. One of them has
done this work for six other towns. Um,
but I mean we have to do something.
I I've lost 240 hours already of
clerical work since November 6th. I have
been pushing this thing. I can show you
text messages between me and Eric
Anderson from day one. I've been trying
to advertise it. I have I have been all
over this
and now we're going to push it out
another two weeks. And this is the first
I've really heard about it to be honest
with you because it hasn't been
communicated to any of the board
members.
>> I've communicated it to my supervisor.
>> And if this Well, if this was
communicated on November 5th, we could
have done something about it right away.
And I didn't know such a dire this is
the first I've heard that this is some
dire situation.
>> So after Erica, he did something on
November 17th or so. So
>> I I don't really I don't really care. I
mean, I'm kind of I care because
everybody's saying I'm doing nothing.
Jeff,
>> listen. I'm kind of with I didn't know
these people.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> I am with Jeff Murray that that this is
this is new information presented to the
board of selectmen related to the
assessor's office and what is needed. I
am not sitting there saying that I'm not
willing to do the memorandum of
understanding with the union with
Roberta, but I am telling everybody
here, this is all new to all five
members.
>> So whether whether John, you were
communicating to Eric and and Eric was
on his way out, that's fine. But all
right, so we're past this now. We as a
board really should decide what to do
related to this. And the only problem I
have is we've not negotiated anything
related to any of this and haven't had
any exposure to any of this. So John is
telling us it's $140 or $160 an hour for
someone from outside and it's $60 an
hour for Roberta for 10 extra hours a
week. And my question was, can we get it
done with the extra 10 hours for
Roberta? And John is basically telling
us we probably have difficulty getting
the work done, but we'll get no training
done. So now we're going to hire an
assistant and not train that person. And
so that person's going to be twiddling
their thumbs, I think John said. And um
>> but we are in a bad situation and that
we have
>> got to train that person though. That's
what I we still haven't answered that.
>> No, I get it. We got we got to answer
that one. But
>> yeah,
>> I mean listen,
>> right? Who's going to train? Ifbert if
Roberta can sit there and assist us as a
community to get the grand list done,
it's in our interests. And
>> if that's going to happen, it's going to
happen after town hall hours are on
Friday.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah.
>> It's going to be set hours off hours of
her hours that are that she's currently
working.
>> Correct.
>> A time clock.
>> She'd punch a time clock for that so we
notice what the hours she put in are.
Let's do it.
>> I have no problem.
>> I'll I'll support it if the logs for the
if if the hours are logged. The hours
need to be logged.
>> John, do you have a problem with that?
Is that a problem?
>> John May.
>> Yeah.
>> Jim has a second monitor here with this
document blown up and I only saw it
today for the first time. Number six
says, "A lot will be kept recording the
number of hours worked on any given day
to provide evidence of compliance and
meeting the weekly hours and work
requirements for this agreement."
>> Okay. So, and what we'll do is we'll
request that um
and I don't I'm pretty sure she still
has a scan on the current payroll time
clock.
All right. Um and and Carol, I'll ask
you this question. Did you ever log in
as town clerk? Is she logging in as town
clerk?
>> No.
>> No. So, she's not logging in town clerk.
So, it won't be like we're we're having
a problem with ours.
We'll have her log in for this and go
through the time card.
All right. Anybody got a problem with
that as a as a workaround to track the
hours?
>> Okay.
>> Still wondering who's going to train the
new person? who who does that when we do
hire somebody.
>> I actually did call Robera today and and
I talked to her because like I I only
saw thisou for the first time when Jim
reached out to me maybe around 11 or 12
o'clock this afternoon and I called her
and I discussed it and and I asked her
if she was willing to train going
forward and she told me this. She said,
"I love this town. I'll help train the
new person going forward and I don't
need to get paid anything extra for it.
But I don't I that is what she told me.
Um
so I think because she's here in the
building, she's saying that if the
person has questions, you know, going
forward, um she's willing to help with
some of that training. Another thing we
can do is both of our software vendors,
we can send the employee to their
location, their satellite location. and
they can get one- on-one training on the
individual software. So, they get some
of that under their belt and they come
back if they have a question choosing
the building. They also can call me,
they can text me. Um, you know, I'll
I'll I'll help out when I can or get
back to them on my lunch hour or or you
know, I I am here, you know, twice a
week. So, it's just going to be a slow
training process. But the but you know
trying to train someone right this
moment when we're when the most we can
get for an extension is 30 days and we
only have till the end of February and
we haven't even gotten our supplemental
motor vehicle list out for last year's
grand list. I mean
there's no way it can all get done and I
get what you're saying Scott that you
say it's unacceptable but I understand
but and I've been talking to Eric about
this since se since September. It's not
like we didn't know this was a problem.
We worked on a job description. We had
it ready to go and um he told me I could
post it the very next day. And then when
I reached out to him and texted him, he
told me to wait. We had to sit on it. He
had to get approval. And you know, all I
can do is is is bring these issues to my
boss and then I have to go with whatever
they said.
>> So, can I ask a question? So it's $60 an
hour that you're asking to be she's
asking to be paid an hour and then
that would be MS social. So she'd be an
employee or would she be a 1099
contractor because 60 an hour then we
have to add MS we have to add the social
security
um FICA and all that. So,
just wondering and are we going to get
into an overnight? Is Dennis is on? I I
know you muted him, Jeff, but um
>> if you could let him
if maybe we could talk to Dennis. I know
you like to mute him, but if you could
unmute him and
>> it wasn't let him come in on this.
>> Well, another thing I want to ask, this
is union position. Is it going to be
okay with the union that we do this?
It's an from the union.
>> Yeah.
>> And Carol, in regards to the to the
money, we've already saved $7,000. And
>> I understand that, John, and I'm not
questioning whether we I mean, we we
vote to go over budget on so many
things. I'm just I'm not saying anything
about that. I'm just saying where the
$60 an hour, does it put us into an
overtime issue because the town clerk
salary is based on a 34-hour work week.
Even though she's not punching a clock,
it is a 34-hour work week. Now, we're
adding on 10 extra hours every week,
which is going to be going into the MS.
So, it's going to cost us, what is it
now? 14% for MS on top of that
social security and all that. So, are we
doing that or are we going to have her
as a 1099
private contractor,
$60 per hour?
>> And I just want Dennis's
input on that one to protect the town.
>> Yeah.
So Jeff, are you gonna unmute for
Dennis?
>> Dennis, Dennis, can you unmute yourself
there?
>> Yeah,
>> I'm asking you to unmute, but it's not.
>> Dennis, call back in.
>> Yeah, do that because I'm I'm hitting
ask to unmute and nothing's happening.
I just have to say that, you know, my my
job as a fair administration of the
local property tax and and honestly, I
wouldn't care if it costs more money
because explaining to somebody how a
house doesn't get taxed or something
doesn't end up on the tax rules, I also
find unacceptable. But that's where
we're headed. There's no way this can
all get done at time.
So from
from the situation that we are currently
in, Carol's comments are
are understood. We have to look at the
extra money that we're talking about
from that. But
it's still going to be way less than the
other amounts that John is putting in
front of us. I think $1099 would be the
way to go. When I had been rehired back
on helping on a job I had been laid off
from, it was $1099. It sound like a
better hourly pay, but because it was
$10.99, I had to pay my own social
security, that kind of thing out of it,
>> right? And then we wouldn't have all the
additional costs because if it's 14% on
top of the 600 then the social security
and everything the town's portion that
we have to pay in um you know if it was
going to be a 1099 situation that I
think would be more acceptable. The only
thing if I could just interject, you
would definitely ask Dennis maybe ask
someone on the financial side or Jeff to
hire back someone as a consultant that
you just left go as a 1099 sometimes
raises a flag, but this is a unique
situation.
>> It doesn't raise flags. I'm sure it's
okay. We know
>> she's still hired as town clerk.
>> True.
Listen, I I have no problem asking
Robera that question, but we need to sit
there and make a decision as to what
we're going to do. So, um, if that's the
choice of of the board is to ask Robera
to do this as a 1099, it's still $600
with no tax deduction and then she'd sit
there and deal with the issues related
to uh employee. we may uh also have a
problem with that, but that's something
that we as a board, we just have to be
aware of.
So,
>> and
>> if that's a choice, let's just move on.
Let's give John some resources so we can
sit there and get this over with and not
have any significant
blowback on
our grand list,
>> our tax list. Well, Jeeoff, I was
thinking I I kind of was thinking two
avenues here because if this fails at
the $60 it's what are we going to we're
looking at probably $80 an hour if it's
if it's we're doing social security and
mirrors, right? Because we're looking 14
plus six and a quarter for social
security.
Correct. That's what the real cost is
going to be. It's going to be $80 an
hour because she's going to get no
benefits because she's part time. Let's
let's sit there and say you had 15% for
social security, Medicare. Um, and then
you had the pension. So, you're probably
looking at an extra 20%. So, it's $12.
So, 72 to $80. I not sitting there
saying you're wrong, but we just need to
sit there and do something. So,
>> $50 less than uh 140. So, if the goal is
to sit there and uh ask her for that,
let's get it approved so we can ask her
for that. And then if we have to
negotiate with uh Roberta, we can.
>> Do you want to just make a motion for
her not to exceed?
>> Uh you guys make the motion that you
want because like from what I'm saying,
Jeeoff, is not in the negative. make the
motion to pay as a 1099 and if you want
to make it a motion for it not to exceed
like let's say a set period of time. So
let's say
>> I say I would just say like $75 an hour
$1099 $75 an hour um
you know for the period of six weeks.
>> Okay John I would sit there and probably
move it through February but
>> okay it's fine. I mean, John, what is
this, John? Just from your standpoint,
what's the what before we even get into
training? So, before we get into
training, what is your need like for
Robera to work those hours? Is it three
months? Is it two months?
>> I would say it would be till like around
February 10th or so because we got to
get the green list filed and then we got
to get the docs off to the printing
company to have the book printed. We
have to get the increase notices out.
Um, I would say like till February, no
later than February 10th.
Uh, how about how about will the board
be, you know, I know he says February
10th, but if we said sit there and say
not to to uh go past the end of February
or February 28th or whatever the end of
the
>> I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I meant March
10th. We we have till the end of
February to file a grant list. I would
say until the end till March 10th when
when we get we have to get the increase
notices out by March 10th. I would say
March 10th would be the date.
>> Okay. then just end it on March 10th if
that's the case because I knew there was
a February deadline.
>> So, the the the motion would be to pay
that through March 10 or not to um not
to go past March 10th and
we move on.
>> Dennis is waiting for the host to let
him in.
>> What is our host doing? Come on, Jim.
Technology, my friend.
He dropped off.
>> Is he owner though?
>> Hello.
>> He's owner.
>> Yeah, he's owner.
>> Yeah, I'm owner. All right. I'm
something else.
I'm a lot of things.
>> Dennis, so this issue related to
>> extra hours for the town clerk in the
assessor's office.
>> Yeah. The only problem I have is that uh
this is a result of a deal you made with
the union,
right?
>> Yep.
I mean, I would, you know, I don't
>> Oh, and just be aware when you say deal
made with the union.
Um,
>> yeah,
>> John, I'm assuming that you had
discussions with the union related to
the current situation within the office
and that this was a an an alternative
that was determined between you, the
union, and Roberta. Is that accurate? I
I think honestly what happened was I was
seriously concerned that
you know I would be accused of
negligence and I went to the union and I
said we have a serious problem here. I
keep talking but but nothing's getting
done. So he came in he met with us.
Robera was here. I think she
volunteered. Her and Theo talked quite a
bit. Um, the first I saw thisou I think
you met with Theo last week or
something, but I I um the first I saw
this was this afternoon. I was going out
getting quotes from other people because
I thought that's what we were going to
have to do. I didn't envision Roberta as
being the one that would help the town.
I envisioned hiring someone else like so
many other towns do when they're in this
situation. You know, one of the persons
who gave a quote worked for six
different towns in the last two years in
situations like this. Um, okay.
>> All right.
>> I I think this is really a wonderful
thing if this could be put together, but
if not, I'm happy to use either one of
those other two, but but this can't
wait. This can't it really can't wait
two weeks.
>> Okay. So, so we understand where this
came from and how it got to our doorstep
in the future. The hope is that uh
all communication gets through the town
administrator and gets to us faster, but
where we're at right now is in this
situation.
So,
um I mean I personally would just accept
the memorandum of understanding or
memorandum of agreement. I would do that
the way it's written. But if you want to
change it and we want to adjust it, um,
let's make the motion and get it done.
>> Want me to do it, Jeff?
>> Go ahead, Jeff. What?
>> All right, I'm going to try my best at
this. Um, I'll make the motion to hire
Robera Doherty as a 1099 contractor
employee at the rate of $75 an hour for
10 hours, which is to be worked opposite
hours that the town clerk hours are
being town clerk hours and work are
being performed. And those hours are to
be logged.
>> Okay. And then give a deadline
>> and the deadline would be March 10th,
2026.
Okay, I'll second that. Any further
discussion?
All right, let's vote on that. Ann's
a yes. Carol Lee,
>> I'm going to abstain.
>> Okay. Uh Jeff Murray,
>> yes.
>> Scott Person.
Scott's a yes as well. Jeff Magcguire,
yes. So, uh 401.
Uh, and we will sit there and reach out
to um, Roberta and make sure that that
is acceptable to where we're at. All
right. Um, John, thank you for staying.
Appreciate it. Um, but in the future,
can you also go through Jim if you have
any issues and make sure that we're made
aware of anything that becomes
problematic in your office? It would
help.
All righty. Where are we at? So, we're
going up to item two. uh a whether to
approve the request of the board clerk
Marina Pandalfi to be considered an
employee of the town or to remain as an
independent contractor.
So Marina has made a request to become
an employee in all technical purposes.
She is an independent contractor because
she's not under the control of the town.
She does all the work at at at her home.
She does it on her computer and
everything else. So, it's a question if
somebody wants to make the motion to
make her an employee or not.
>> Question, Jeff. Have we ever had anybody
uh in this role as an employee
>> ever?
>> I can't I can't recall anyone.
The only one that I know may have fallen
into the the employee status is at the
beginning of my term, Bob Burbank had
his assistant doing a lot of the
minutes, but I'm not sure how she was
compensated. I don't know if she got
compensated through payroll or she got
compensated through a 1099.
>> I mean, it's always been a step end. I
would I I would prefer to just keep it a
stipend situation.
>> Okay. then then we're not gonna make the
request and then just so the board
>> unless anybody else wants to make a
motion that's all
>> well no if if anyone wants to make a
motion let's go if not then I'm just
making everyone aware that we're going
to probably have to look for a board
clerk to sit there and insist
>> that's what's going to happen
>> yeah and it's fine Scott I don't believe
we should make her an employee to be
really honest so I'm already prepared I
think we have to prepare for that we
just as a board have to know that Come
January 1st, we're going to have to sit
there and and do something different.
>> All of our all of our meetings are
transcribed. The reason why we now vote
by roll call is to make the
transcription information easier on the
person doing the the minutes. Um, with
technology, this entire thing should get
easier, not harder.
I mean, it's my
my impression that, you know, if we open
this up to somebody in town that, you
know, she decides she doesn't want to do
it anymore.
>> It's it's it's it's something that
somebody could do in their spare time
from their home. So,
>> I think if we open it up to the
residents in town, I'm sure we would
find a few people that would probably be
interested.
>> Okay. All right. I have no problem with
that. Can uh we move on to 2B or anybody
want to stay on this one?
Okay. We'll move on to 2B. whether to
prove as written or amended the draft
rental agreement for use of the
community and community/cenior center.
So
Jeff, I looked at this just briefly
and one major issue I have with it is
that there should be an exemption list
on this uh document for the Boy Scouts
and other organizations because I don't
think we should be charging those
people. So, we need to identify the
organizations in town that we do not
want to charge a fee for.
>> Okay?
>> And those are for their and it would be
for their direct events only. Like they
can't you like somebody couldn't use the
Boy Scouts or uh another organization to
have, you know, like the back door or
something. It would have to be for like
>> they want to do the Pinewood Derby or
something like that, the community
center, they'd be able to.
>> And like I said, I saw it said
nonprofits.
And I think a lot of those organizations
fall under nonprofits, but I'd like to
single out and identify some of those
organizations in town that can use it.
>> That'd be good
because I guess like the commission
didn't have to pay yesterday. Is that
correct?
>> That is correct.
>> Yeah.
>> So, they probably ought to have that
category on there about the
>> like the following organizations are
exempt from fees and
>> Yeah.
Yeah. Tess is on if you want to ask or
anything.
>> That's just my suggestion right now. I
think the fees are acceptable. I just
would like to have, you know, a list of
exempted organizations in town that we
could um, you know, not charge a fee
for.
>> Okay. So, just so we understand that
exempted organizations really mean the
use of the building, not use of anything
else. If they use anything else, they
use the kitchen or anything like that,
they pay. Correct.
>> Well, I mean, what are we going to do
about the like the senior lunch program?
That should be exempted.
>> The senior lunch program is exempted
because it's part of the whole town
program.
>> Yeah. The thing is falls under
>> you're asking you're asking for non town
organizations that benefit people in in
town. So I'm okay with that. I'm just
asking where does it end for an exempt
organization like the Boy Scouts? Is it
just the building
the room or is you know
>> space?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, if they want to do a
fundraiser or something and use the
kitchen, that would be a different
story. But if they're going to use it
for meetings or events, that'd be fine.
>> Okay. And so, do we uh want to approve
this with the understanding that we're
going to give a list to test of exempt
organizations and we give it to our next
next month at our January meeting so
that you everybody can list out the
organizations that would be potentially
exempt within town. Yeah, I think we
should all brainstorm and come up with
some a list and then at the next meeting
in January, you know, whittle it down to
what we feel is appropriate.
>> Okay. So, because,
you know, I didn't necessarily have any
problems with the dollar per hour rental
on the the the the
facility. What I probably had more of a
problem with was um the deposit should
be returned probably 48 hours after
review of the facility to make sure that
the facility is in good state.
>> So that escro deposit.
>> Yeah. Um yeah like the I just want to
say for example like the PTA had the the
babysitting the kids night the parents
night out event a couple a week ago. you
know, that would be an organization I
would exempt.
>> That's fine.
>> Come up with a list of exempt
organizations. We'll sit there and and
go through it. And um you know,
obviously this is a learning and uh you
know, we're going to have a learning
curve and we're going to understand, you
know, some of these exempt organizations
might might work and some might not. And
Tess and her staff are going to tell us
that this worked and this didn't. So, we
can always modify the exempt
organization list down the road. Yeah,
we can always we can always modify it as
necessary, but I just don't want to keep
those I don't want to put those
organizations out in the cold, not be
able to use the facility when charging
them.
>> So, is there is there anything that um
anyone had related to the rest of the
document that needed to be adjusted?
>> Yeah, could I say something?
>> Sure. Go ahead, Dennis.
>> Oh, thank you. Yeah.
>> Um, I'm glad to see there's a paragraphs
in here about uh uh excusing us from
liability,
but to me it's it's it needs to be
strengthened. It only applies to whoever
applies.
And uh I'm I'm always concerned about,
you know, a lot of towns require
insurance for any organization that uses
town property.
Also, uh you would want um you know you
would want the person who is signing for
the organization
to at least uh say they're authorized to
sign for the organization and exempt uh
but you know you're going to have
individuals there and I'm just concerned
about liability. I I I'd like to
strengthen that if I can. So, so
>> I've written a lot of these before. I
>> Dennis, let's um um Is anyone anyone
have a problem with the hourly rates?
The number one thing.
>> No. Everybody good? Okay. Then Dennis,
can you take a look at this and sit
there and see what um language that you
would propose to sit there and put in
this from a liability standpoint? and
then we can sit there and talk Jeff
Murray and everybody else as to the
exempt organizations and have this ready
to go at our January meeting and get it
done. Is that acceptable to everybody?
>> Test test since we're engaged. What do
you got?
>> You got your hand up. just just want to
say that um what we've been finding is
that in private use um
perhaps um
an adjustment to the contract would be
um having someone
stay on site until um the event is
finished so that um there would be no
damage during the occasion.
um that has been brought up to uh from a
couple of different people
because there have been children in and
out of the kitchen and in and out of the
lounge that has damaged um puzzles and
different things like that. So just just
wanting to throw that out there. So, are
you are you stating someone from the
town side should there be there
>> for the or is it someone from the
organization?
>> I'm stating that perhaps someone be
hired from um to stay on site or before
and after just to make sure that
everything is is clear um so that all
rules are rules are followed
appropriately. uh from the contract and
that would be in addition to the
contract as well. So um that proposal
has been brought to Haley and I and I
just want to bring that forward to you
that that might be an additional option
to the contract.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Je spoke to this a few months ago.
I think when we first started this that
like we trained a half a dozen people
that would open and close it and and
>> verify and then that would be built into
this fee structure and they would get
paid a stipend out of that.
>> Correct.
>> That's what they do like Glastonbury
does that a lot with their like JB
Williams Park and things. They have
retirees that go and open up the
facility for for picnics and parties and
then they go at the end and close it all
up and make sure everything's left in a
a satisfactory condition.
>> Right. and that would be an additional
charge to the person that is um that
would be a private event. And so
hopefully we know that our nonprofit
organizations would follow the rules,
but that has not been um always the
case. But definitely assuming pure
motive and um
exactly what Jeff had said that perhaps
there would be an additional charge for
somebody to be on site. So, it would be
a per hour charge and then an opening
and closing fee.
>> Correct.
>> Yeah, we that's something I would like
to work into it. And then another thing
I like I said, Tess, I'm just trying to
read through this on my phone because I
came upstairs and my monitor was busted
on my computer. So, my camera and my
monitor is broken. So, I'm trying to
read this off my phone. Um, and I I'm
just trying to get through it. And um
does this have any uh thing about
alcohol or anything of no alcohol
allowed or anything like that in this?
>> Uh there is not anything about alcohol.
>> Yeah, because that could open up a can
of worms because we got
>> Correct.
>> Yep. So that's another thing we should
discuss.
>> Yeah, we we did present that a few
several months ago. Um that hasn't been
approved by the board. So we're just
waiting for the board to approve um yes
to alcohol, no to alcohol. Yeah.
All right. So, let's sit there and do
that and then sit there and um
um
>> So, I got some I got some homework for
Tess. Um are you in contact with any
other community center directors or
staff in
>> Yes, I am on a regular basis.
>> Can you um could just a little homework
for you for the next uh meeting. Is
there any way you can pull the other
community centers and see what their
policy is?
>> Absolutely.
>> Okay.
>> Yep. Do you want me to give that to you,
Jeff, or do you want me to give that to
the entire board? What would you
>> Oh, yeah. If if you just next week or
the week out before our meeting, just if
you just pulled a bunch of people and
then just send us an email saying, you
know, this is these are my findings.
>> Yep.
>> And then the next meeting we can make a
decision, educated decision what we want
to do.
>> You got it.
>> And I'd want to pull Dennis a copy of
that also.
>> Pull Dennis.
>> Y. You got it. And Dennis, if you could
just also um send that extra liability.
Yeah, we can add that, too.
>> Yeah, I'm gonna look at all of it. I I I
think you've I think you made a really
good start with this test. Uh you know,
but there's a lot of different you know,
I don't know enough about what you know,
how many what do you plan? How many
groups are going to be using it? I mean,
you're going to be overwhelmed with
this. You know, you got to be careful.
>> Yep. Absolutely. Yep. What what is the
capacity of the building terms?
>> The capacity is Yeah, the capacity for
seating is I believe 60. Um if it's
standing room only, I believe it's 128.
>> Yeah. Got to be careful with alcohol,
too.
>> And that's inside and outside, by the
way. So, if we have a picnic uh or a
concert outside, if we have a food truck
or something like that, that's
definitely to be considered.
>> Sure. There's a lot lot to be
considered. I've I've hired a few P
chucks in the past and some of them have
their own liquor license. So, they're
they're responsible for serving on on
their own.
>> Correct.
>> Okay. So, we're going to sit there and
push this part of this to our next
meeting as well. So, that's 2B to be
moved to. And
>> I just have one more question. Is how
did you um arrive at these fees? Is this
something that you pulled some of the
other community centers over and kind of
got a running average?
>> Yeah, that's correct. Um uh Haley did a
lot of the research and so um
>> uh that was something that I would have
been a little bit more lenient but um
she had checked into different
facilities and what their rate was and
so we compromised a little bit and so
that was what we um that was what we
agreed on.
>> Yeah. I just don't want to undercut
other towns because everybody you know
the word's gonna get out oh Andover's
cheap to have a event so we'll just go
there.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, I totally understand.
So, I can um I am in contact with all
the other directors of the senior
centers in the entire state of
Connecticut and so I can definitely send
that email out and um find find out what
they're doing.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> You're welcome.
>> All right. Um thank you. We're going to
move on to 2C. um whether to address
concerns raised by Tess Krauss during
the December 8th meeting of of the board
of selectmen. Um number one or I
approval of community and senior center
director job descriptions. So in our
packet
um
we have
>> page 11.
>> Yeah, page 11 is the first one. That's
the
the revised
job description. And then there's I
believe the original one for the uh 12,
13, 14 where the job description posted
for the hiring. So, does anyone have
anything that they want to change on
page 11?
Give me one second. I have to scroll on
my phone.
Sorry about that.
>> Yeah, I just I I really want to get
Jeeoff, I really want to get some time
to look at this. Like I said, this got
out at 3 around 3:30 today, so
I don't think any of us have really had
a chance to look at this stuff.
>> Um, okay. Let's let's sit there and say
we approve these at our next meeting.
The two job descriptions
>> I I do want to vote on three and four.
>> Um
>> so the other two uh plus the and the ven
diagram I guess it is.
>> Um those are things that we should sit
there and address
internally and get done for our next
meeting. So, please review those and if
anybody has any issues, let's get those
addressed before our next meeting in
January.
>> All right. So, this goes down to page
um
page 19.
So, um, Tess had PTO, 117 hours of PTO
for the fiscal year. And Tess, has that
changed slightly or is it still 117?
Sorry.
>> Sorry. Um, uh, tell me again your
question, Jeff. Uh the treasur's office
or the finance department gave us that
Tess is owed 117 hours of PTO currently.
>> That's correct.
>> Okay. And the finance department gave us
an hourly rate of 3476 per hour. Is that
accurate?
>> That's is to my knowledge that is
correct.
>> Okay.
So,
I'll just make sure I do the math
because I did this, but I'll do it again
34.76
times 17
$4,66.92.
So, uh, I'm going to make a motion that
we authorize the treasurer, the finance
department to pay out Tess Krauss for
her 117 hours of paid time off
uh,
before the end of before before at the
next payroll cycle. And I'm I'm hopeful
I'm gonna
I'll make a motion that we authorize the
the the
finance department to pay test grass out
for 117 hours of PTO at a at a total of
$4,66.92.
>> Second that, Jeff.
>> All right. Uh further discussion. What I
was going to I was trying to say is um
when's the next payroll cycle test?
It's before the end of the year. You're
on mute.
>> You're mute.
>> Oh, sorry.
>> Before the end of the year.
>> It Yeah, but what I'm what I'm after is
is there another cycle before the end of
the year?
>> Just
that would be Wednesday.
Time cards are due this Friday, so that
would be Wednesday.
this week.
>> There is Jim.
>> I'm just
>> end of this week, right? But there's
payroll on Monday.
>> You have payroll due Friday. End of this
week, right?
>> Tess payroll is due on the 26th.
>> Pay is due, I believe, on Wednesday the
31st or
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Jim, can you just
>> There's a holiday.
>> Yeah. Can you just verify that that gets
to Chris and that gets done?
>> Absolutely. approve it.
>> All right.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. So,
um Scott seconded it. Does anybody else
have any other issues related to this?
>> I just was wondering um
she's not under the union though. Is
that correct?
>> That's correct.
>> Yeah. Because I notic in the union thing
that was in our packet is saying that
people can keep up to five days carried
over, but I guess Tess isn't able to do
that. No, she she she is and we we were
going there the two things, Ann. We were
going to attempt to sit there and allow
her to roll over 117 hours, but because
of the situation with Tess from last
year, it's almost impossible for her to
take all that time.
>> I know this year she can't. I just
didn't know about her s
>> if she wanted to carry any of it over. I
don't know.
>> It's okay with me.
>> She has the right to carry over a week.
>> Okay.
>> Right.
>> If she wants.
>> Okay.
>> Well, not even if she wants. She she has
to it's it's like everybody is required
to take the necessary amount of time
right now there. So there's a lot of
people taking extra leave because
>> they have PTO that they don't want to
lose.
>> So
>> Okay.
>> All right. This is because a totally
different issue.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Yep. So um um
anybody else have any other issues
related to this?
Okay then. Uh u we'll call a vote. Uh
Ann, how do you vote?
>> A vote. I
>> Carolite
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray
>> Scott Person
>> I.
>> Jeff Magcguire I. So five nothing. So
we'll move that out. Um item 2 C4
set official start date for designation
of municipal agent for elderly and
social services for payroll purposes.
Um,
>> I think she should have been paid for it
right when we
made we voted to make her the municipal
agent and social services because a lot
of the duties of municipal agent were
already being handled through the
community center. So
>> yeah, I I I I tend to agree with you
Carol. The only issue that I have
related to that is that Tess wanted time
to sit there and review it. So, Tess, if
you can come back on for one second.
>> Yeah, I'm here.
>> Okay. So, are you all good for um
handling the role of municipal agent and
social services? You
>> I am.
>> All right. So, then Carol, if we make
that motion to retroactively go back, I
I'm
>> Yes, I think that we should.
>> Okay. So, does anybody here know the
date that we actually
did that?
>> It was our I think it was our November
meeting.
>> November 20th, I believe.
>> November 20th. Thank you.
>> Okay.
So, um
>> Carol, would you like to make that
motion?
>> Sure. I'd like to make the motion that
test grows be paid retroactive back to
November 20th for the municipal agent
and social services stipend that was
agreed upon in the budget.
>> Second that
>> and creme has seconded that. Uh any
further discussion on this issue?
Okay. Uh we're going to vote on that and
creme. How do you vote?
>> Hi. So Ann voted yes. Carol Lee
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray
>> Scott Person.
>> Scott Person voted yes. Jeff Magguire
yes. So five nothing. Uh all right.
Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Um
2D item 2D. Uh weather. Uh and Tessa
enjoy the party.
Okay. Merry Christmas. Um uh 2D uh
whether and if so to what extent to
approve the request made by selectman
Lee on behalf of former assistant town
clerk Britney Comt seeking retroactive
lum payment of to Miss Comtock for hours
she worked as acting town clerk during
calendar year 2025.
Um,
>> so we all received the uh spreadsheet
>> uh that was sent on Sunday and it
excellent job on that spreadsheet with
the hours and showing the difference in
pay.
Um, so
the total would be $7,948.15.
Okay.
>> So, did you want me to make a motion?
Did you want to talk about what was in
the spreadsheet?
Well, I would I would talk about that
and then what's in our package and then
determine if we want to push this to our
January meeting because um
>> yeah, I was prepared to kind of make a
decision on this tonight. But after the
packet came out, I think we need to
consult with Dennis and I think we need
to take this up at our January meeting,
>> unfortunately. And I don't and and
honestly I'm I am with Jeff Murray
because I did not know that there was a
memorandum. Uh
>> I did not know either till 319 today.
>> What memorandum are we talking about?
>> There's a memorandum between the union
and Eric
>> page 50 that Eric had signed with the
union
>> back in July
>> back uh actually he had to do this
before that. Um anyway, uh we need to
sit there and um
that needs to be evaluated. So, um
if no one minds, I would appreciate it
if everybody could review this. We could
get with Dennis and then we could bring
this up in our January board meeting.
Anybody got a major problem with it?
>> Yeah, I hate pushing it off, but when I
saw that, I think we really need to
examine it.
>> Okay.
For what it's worth, I agree. I just saw
that today also. And uh you know,
I think this is fairly complicated.
>> Okay. All right. So, if no one really
has a major problem with that, I would
like to I would like to do that. Um
>> I'm fine with that.
>> Okay. Um Carol, are you okay with that?
And so we can we can put it on our
January meeting and get it done because
either either way we'll get it. I don't
think I have a choice in being okay with
it, do I?
>> Well, we would we would have to vote on
it again if three people voted no.
>> And it would just be wasting time
because Okay, I'm sure.
>> So, we already did uh item E uh and
speaking to the assessor. So, now we're
on to item three, which is German. And
before we leave, I'd like to wish
everybody a happy merry Christmas, happy
holidays, and uh
>> you too as well.
>> Merry Christmas to everyone.
>> Merry Christmas.
>> All right. So, uh I'll make a motion to
adjurnn.
Second Scott Person seconded he beat
beat you in Carol. Okay. All those in
favor we'll all go I
>> I
>> All right. Thank you.